Python model for the analysis of sector-specific stock ETFs for investment purposes

Client:A Leading Investment Firm in the USA

Industry Type:Finance

Services:Investment, Consulting

Organization Size:100+

Have an existing Python model that has been built for the analysis of sector-specific stock ETFs for investment purposes. Need to update the existing selection criteria to adjust the selection filter and add a screening criterion that drops off one or more of the proposed holdings, and to have the ability to adjust the parameters of the selection criteria to test different variables.

The 2 in 4 Fundamental model screens a fundamental ranking of stock market sectors, picks the top ranked holding and continues to hold that sector as long as it remains in the top four rankings.  The model holds two positions at a time.  The sector ranking data is in the wcm5.xlxs file.  We input data from the PRICES.CSV file to pull up monthly returns.  When I go to run the program, I use the 2_in_4_New.py and that give me the current rankings for both the fundamental and technical rankings.

Sometimes a sector is ranked as being fundamentally attractive because it has become cheaper because of problems going on within an industry.  What I would like to do is to test out a way of screening out a sector based upon poor performance over a lookback period.  Here is what the new model would do.

An Updated, Optimised Python script that will filter and return Technical and Financial holdings, with a Price filter that will do price analysis on a certain lookback period.

Numpy

pandas

itertools,

combinations

permutations

Python

The client now can get more than 2 Financial and technical holdings , up to maximum 5 holdings for both Technical and Financial, plus the holdings were more accurate because of the new added Price Filter that will Exclude the holding that has the weakest performance over a specify lookback period, default 52 weeks. It boosted the Client’s profit because of the more accurate and optimised functional filters.