Data Management for a Political SaaS Application

Client:A leading tech firm in the USA

Industry Type:IT

Services:SaaS, Products

Organization Size:100+

As per the guidelines and discussion. Political Research Automated Data Acquisition (PRADA) in the following phases which included.

1. Get pics for existing EOs (Elected Officials)

2. Get new EOs and Pictures.

3. Run QA checks regularly on EOs

4. Get data from government Facebook pages.

5. Geospatial project: Create a new version of provided KML without using google earth.  Creating a nested directories which contained description and Map-URL at the designated location.

6. Get data of US States and Counties(Including Boroughs and Parishes)

By building an automated generated structured data that allows a non – programmer to create a config for each page allowing a bot to scrap and update the data.

We created an automated python scripts for designated phases with respective requirements. Solutions to various type of problems varied such as most of data scrapping automation was done through python developed scripts including the geospatial KML task. In addition to this different ranges of data was scrapped generated directed output for the respective tasks in the form of CSV format. So the user’s main aim requirement was achieved i.e. a non programmer could create a con-fig and initiate a bot to scrap the required data.

The majority task of project consisted of web data scraping automation so a high- level overview, and specific implementation details of project shall will be as follows:

None. All the structured data was in the form of either python Data Frames, CSV or Excel Sheets.

Chrome driver initiated

Chrome driver visiting the directed links and accessing the image URLs

Directed to next linkKML task

Facebook Data extraction



Data of State Governments of US



Accessing links through wiki directing to counties

Nesting within the list of counties of a particular stateFinding and Extracting link of the website of County

The GitHub repository link:- https://github.com/AjayBidyarthy/Paul-Andr-Savoie/tree/main

Here are my contact details:

Email: ajay@blackcoffer.com

Skype: asbidyarthy

WhatsApp: +91 9717367468

Telegram: @asbidyarthy

For project discussions and daily updates, would you like to use Slack, Skype, Telegram, or Whatsapp? Please recommend, what would work best for you.