Car Detection in Satellite Images

Client:A leading retail firm in the USA

Industry Type:Retail

Services:Retail business

Organization Size:100+

The objective of this project was to detect cars in satellite images and highlight them using a bounding box.

The client, Steffen Schneider, approached us with a requirement to develop a Python project that dealt in the field of computer vision. The main aim of the project was to detect cars present in a satellite image and highlight them using a bounding box. To achieve this, we decided to use the Darknet model and train it on Yolov4 dataset of cars in satellite images.

We used Google Colab for coding and training the Darknet model. Kaggle was used to download the Yolov4 dataset of cars in satellite images. We preprocessed the dataset and trained the model on it. Once the model was trained, we tested it on sample satellite images and it worked perfectly fine. Finally, we created a script that detected the cars in an image and highlighted them using a bounding box.

The final deliverable was a ipython Notebook presented on Google Colab.

Google Colab, Kaggle, Slack(For Communication)

Python

Darknet(CV Model)

Python programming, AI/ML.

The main challenge we faced was related to the pre-processing of the Yolov4 dataset of cars in satellite images. The dataset was large and had to be cleaned and formatted before it could be used for training the model.

The project was a success and the client was very happy with the final product. The car detection model worked perfectly fine on sample satellite images and could be used for further development of an application that could detect cars in real-time.

https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1AoeHdZdpi0lWLf3X2G800J0VT_7wJtnE



Here are my contact details:

Email: ajay@blackcoffer.com

Skype: asbidyarthy

WhatsApp: +91 9717367468

Telegram: @asbidyarthy

For project discussions and daily updates, would you like to use Slack, Skype, Telegram, or Whatsapp? Please recommend, what would work best for you.